---
title: Design
permalink: /open/elec/design/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_icon: "bolt"
toc_label: "Design"
---

It was challenging to fit all our sensors into our circuit boards since we
wanted a 20cm diameter robot, while keeping double layered wheels, double
dribblers and a solenoid, which took up a lot of space. Here, we detail some
design considerations for cramming our sensors and components in a small area.

## Components

More details about the selection process can be found
[here](/open/elec/components).

<details markdown=1><summary>Components List</summary>

{% include_relative 03.2.1-open-components-list.md %}

</details>

## Positioning

While designing our PCB, we made sure to position "groups" of components close
to each other. e.g. resistors for motor drivers are placed together with the
driver. This ensured that traces for related parts did not run all over the
circuit board, and simplified the designing process.

We also ensured that these groups were placed close to the intended
"destination", e.g. the motor drivers were placed directly under the motors.
This shortens cable runs and also ensures high current cables from the motors do
not affect other data lines.

Lastly, we ensured that the boost converter circuit, a very high powered circuit
charging capacitors at up to 60v, was
[placed far away](/open/elec/circuits/#positioning) from our other components to
prevent any accidents or interference from the switching action of the boost
converter.

{% include figure
image_path='/assets/images/pcb-layer1.png'
alt='Grouping components'
caption='Grouping components'
%}

## Trace widths

A major issue with [our initial circuit boards](/open/elec/history/#first-pcb)
were the trace widths. We used the same thin trace width for everything from
data lines to motor power, which is a really bad idea since ≈10A of current were
running down traces rated for ≈0.8A.

Now, we utilise polygons / pours and thicker trace widths (40 mils) for our high
current traces e.g. motor and solenoid.

High current traces running parallel to high speed signals or analog signals
(from light sensors) can cause interference. This is especially so since we
wanted to keep to a 2-layer PCB, meaning we could not rely on internal layers to
separate data and power traces. Hence, to decrease the number of power traces
throughout the PCB, high power lines are run through 18AWG wires.

{% include figure
image_path='/assets/images/pcb-layer1-spaghetti.jpg'
alt='Power Cables'
caption='Power Cables'
%}

Although it looks ugly, it results in a more reliable circuit board as sudden
braking / changing direction of the motor which causes a current spike will not
affect surrounding analog circuits or interfere with communication signals.

## Reference Schematics

When we first shifted away from commercial off the shelf (COTS) components and
breakout boards of ICs, we consulted the datasheets which contain a "recommended
application schematic" most of the time, and simply use those to design our
circuits.

{% include figure
image_path='/assets/images/tps5430-application-sch.png'
alt='TPS5430 Buck Converter Application Schematic'
caption='TPS5430 Buck Converter Application Schematic'
link='https://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/tps5430.pdf'
%}

Sometimes, these COTS components we purchase from Taobao come with schematics as
well, and if we are using the same IC
[(which we usually are)](/open/elec/selection/#selection) we consult these
schematics to design our circuits as well.

{% include figure
image_path='/assets/images/adxl345-taobao-sch.png'
alt='ADXL345 Accelerometer Taobao Schematic'
caption='ADXL345 Accelerometer Taobao Schematic'
%}

Lastly, ICs we use are
[typically found in COTS components](/open/elec/selection/#selection) from
popular manufacturers like Sparkfun or Pololu, and these companies usually
release their schematics, hence we can take those as reference when designing
our circuits.

{% include figure
image_path='/assets/images/vnh5019-pololu-sch.png'
alt='VNH5019 Motor Driver Pololu Schematic'
caption='VNH5019 Motor Driver Pololu Schematic'
link='https://www.pololu.com/product/1451'
%}
