---
title: Selection Process
permalink: /open/elec/selection/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_icon: "check-square"
toc_label: "Selection Process"
---

## Suppliers

Apart from the reasons outlined in the
[components section](/open/elec/components), one main reason we select our
components is the availability here in Singapore.

We used to source our components from the local Sim Lim Tower, a retail complex
with shops selling electrical components. We also purchase certain parts from
the local shop SGBotic, which is a distributor for popular brands like Pololu,
Sparkfun, Adafruit etc.

However, purchasing parts locally was getting expensive. We had a limited budget
with an increasing number of teams to spend it on. Hence, we looked to overseas
suppliers like [Taobao](https://world.taobao.com/) and other major distributors
like [element14](https://sg.element14.com) which sold parts (sometimes
counterfeit) at cheaper prices.

## Selection

Now, a major reason we select certain components is based on availability on
trusted Taobao suppliers. We usually purchase from
[YouXin](https://youxin-electronic.taobao.com) and we also discover components
from there.

For example, out of all the multiplexers that are available, we narrow our
search down by searching for "multiplexers" on YouXin and sorting by quantity of
each part sold. This gives us a good indication of the more popular ICs which
would probably be more trusted and reliable, and also better supported with
libraries and examples online.

These popular ICs are usually also used in popular breakout boards. For example,
the LM2596 buck converter IC is both popular as a COTS breakout board and as an
IC. Thus, when we
[shifted from COTS breakout boards to SMD ICs](/open/elec/history/#shift-to-smd)
we also looked at the breakout boards we were using while finding different ICs.

## Caveats

This selection process does not really work for tools. We had purchased bad
solder which refused to melt, bad flux which burnt off in an instant and smelt
bad, and bad power tools that melts itself due to the bad construction and
material choices.

The method of sorting by quantity sold only works within a supplier, and usually
only for ICs: e.g., sorting all multiplexers within YouXin. When it comes to
tools, apart from checking quantity sold we try to look out for the price as
well. While this may seem unintuitive, we look out for more expensive tools
since most of the time they are still cheaper than purchasing locally, and
looking out for the cheapest tools was always too good to be true.
