---
title: History
permalink: /open/elec/history/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_icon: "history"
toc_label: "History"
---

## COMING SOON

When we started RoboCup back in 2017, we were given a set of sensors that were
the leftovers from whatever our seniors used. With these sensors, there was
little documentation as they were usually from JoinMax (the company that
produces the RCU and the motor we are currently using) and they were obsolete.

Making matters worse, a lot of them were already broken from years of use, so we
were not always sure whether we were doing something wrong or whether the sensor
itself was broken.

### Sensors and Motor Drivers

Our first challenge was to get a moving robot. To do so, at the very least we
needed motor drivers and a compass.<!--- link to components section on IMU --->
The only motor drivers we were able to find were dual motor drivers from
JoinMax<!--- link to product page ---> that had ports which were directly
compatible with our motors.

At that time, we had not touched Arduino programming yet, and the only time we
interacted with anything similar was with LEGO in the WRO competition. Hence, we
had no notion on how the Arduino controls the motor driver, and thus was
clueless on how it even worked. We did not learn about the inner workings of a
motor yet, thus we assumed that they were magic; that our motor could only work
with motor drivers that were made for it. This cost us a lot of time as we went
around finding this exact (very old) model of motor driver when most of them
were broken already. However, looking back this was the main reason we wanted to
shift away from breakout boards and pre-made modules as we wanted to have a high
level of understanding and integration within our circuits.

Learning points: All these misconceptions were cleared only when we started
programming and thus started to understand how these sensors worked. Sensors
cannot work without programming or wiring, so learning and doing both in tandem
is essential to ensure full understanding of what you are doing. Also, do make
use of the multitude of amazing resources available (for free!) on the web, or
make use of your seniors and other connections to ask for help.

### Microcontrollers

When we were designing our first robot, we were handed an Arduino Mega and Nano
to use as our microcontrollers.<!---link the arduino stores here---> We were
told that the Mega was to be used as the main controller, and the Nano was there
only to process the Ultrasonic Sensor's data. However, using the Arduino Mega
was way too unsuited for our usage: It cost SGD \$50+ to get one, and it had too
many pins which we would never need. While preparing for our 2nd RoboCup in
2018, it was one of the first things we wanted to change.

One of the main teams that we looked up to at that time (and still do) was INPUT
RCJ from Japan<!---link---> as they were really open with their blog which
allowed us to learn a lot from them. In particular, while studying their poster
we realised that they do not use an Arduino, but rather they use ST's Nucleo
boards.<!---link---> At that time, the concept of microcontrollers was new to
us: to us, the Arduino was just like the LEGO EV3,<!---link---> the only
controller that we could use. However this opened up a new world of
possibilities and choices, and eventually influenced our choice of
microcontrollers.<!---link--->

While preparing for our

### Circuit Boards

Our first circuit boards were copied from our seniors; at that time, we didn't
know how to make our own, and we didn't even know what all the wires and
connections meant, and so we copied our senior's old circuits. This was seen
most clearly with our "motor board", a breakout circuit board for our motor
drivers. While trying to make sense of how to control a motor driver, we
referred to our senior's circuit but failed to understand what it did, and ended
up copying it wholesale. This kind-of worked at first, however as we needed to
add more sensors and circuits onto our board it quickly got messy and confusing.
It got to a point where we had 5 different circuit boards, all side by side with
jumper wires connected between them, when they could have been easily integrated
into 1 clean circuit board. This lesson was the main motivation behind our first
PCB<!---link it here---> <!---see if have any old photos--->

#### First PCB

For our 2nd year competiting in 2018, we wanted to shift away from the messiness
and inelegance of the past. Seeing as our senior team had made a PCB themselves
in 2017, we decided to design a PCB ourselves where everything was fully
integrated and we didn't have to deal with any wires. The first design, very
surprisingly, worked "fully" without any ad-hoc soldering to fix our circuit.
However, our entire board was designed with 8 mil traces, the minimum trace
width in SparkFun's EAGLE DRC file. We did not realise this was a problem until
we attempted to power our solenoid, slowly increasing the voltage in the boost
converter until we heard a bang along with some magic smoke. This killed
everything on the PCB, from the teensy to the 4 (very expensive) Pololu drivers
on there.<!---link to bottom about motor current investigation and boost--->

Along with our shift away from messy wires, we also decided to use the RJ11 6P6C
jack for our connections, since we wanted a keyed jack that would ensure we
never plug things in the wrong way. However, this was way bigger than we
anticipated, and now we're left with way too many unused RJ11 jacks and plugs
and breakout boards in our lab (oops)

#### Shift to SMD components and ICs

Our 2018 PCBs were a step forward compared to the (many) circuit boards of
yesteryear, but they still didn't look like PCBs we are used to seeing in our
computers / electronics. This was when we decided to step into the world of SMD
components; to eliminate all breakout (PCB) boards in our PCB and integrate
everything into one.

It wasn't easy, as we had to read through datasheets which were very foreign to
us and try to understand complex terminologies when we are just trying to
accomplish an easy task. Many of these datasheets also contain info that aren't
really important to us, like stability or temperature information, and it was
difficult to filter out the important data from the irrelevant ones.

A tip if you are just starting out on a similar path: a good starting point is
the recommended application schematic. Many times, apart from Vmax we don't
really need that much info on its characteristics, and skip right to the
application schematic to reference and build our circuit from there. Attempt to
understand the rationale of every component used in that application schematic,
that way you can optimise the circuit specifically to your needs.

[We also had a good time trying to figure out how to solder these components](/open/elec/soldering/)

#### Test PCB

Since it was our first time using these ICs directly without a breakout board,
we were not confident that it would work on the first try. We wanted to be able
to test these components, however we required a 22\*20cm PCB since that was the
size of our robot. "Development Kits" sold by chip manufacturers themselves were
either too expensive or didn't really exist for the ICs we were testing. Hence,
riding on JLCPCB's USD \$2 PCBs under 10\*10cm, we decided to make a "test PCB"
which was just a large breakout board of the various ICs we were planning to
use. This proved to be useful: we found problems with our circuits; and ICs we
wanted to use that weren't suitable or just didn't work. We have continued this
practice for this year (2020), and if you are just starting out I would
recommend this as well.

<details markdown=1><summary>todo</summary>

- general **BRIEF** "history" about our electronics (mostly to showcase learning
  process)
  - old perfboards and first forays into PCB
    - KC's drone and testing with ATMEGA328P
    - link to bottom pcb design (failures)
  - PCB design (failures)
  - too thin power traces in first PCB
    - lights flickering every time direction changed, or solenoid kick
    - investigations into motor current draw
      - justin's project, 12A when reversing!
  - 4 layer lmao
  - ground pour but didn't realise that it was only connected at one point
  - crosstalk but how we can't prevent it well

</details>
