---
title: Graphical User Interface
permalink: /open/cam/gui/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_icon: "window-maximize"
toc_label: "GUI"
---

## Overview

Last year during competitions, we realised that the calibration process for our camera was extremely slow and tedious as we had to rely on VNC to display and control the RPi. This year, creating a graphical user interface (GUI) which can effectively strealine the process of debugging was a priority for us. Our GUI is able to stream frames from the camera at realtime which can be launched easily. Furthermore, we can edit the calibration values on the GUI and these changes will be reflected on the GUI immediately.

## Functions

These functions were developed to simplify and automate the debugging process. 

### GUI 

This GUI was mainly written in QT5 (CPP). The design and functions of the GUI can be found in [mainwindow.cpp](https://github.com/bozotics/GUI/blob/master/mainwindow.cpp). Streaming and displaying functions can be found in [video.cpp](https://github.com/bozotics/GUI/blob/master/video.cpp) whereas the [notepad.cpp](https://github.com/bozotics/GUI/blob/master/notepad.cpp) is the code for the notepad. 

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/gui_label" alt="Screenshot to explain the functions of the GUI" caption="Labelled screenshot of our GUI" %}

A) **Send** files to RPi
* Send **camera.cpp**
* Send **camera.h**
* Send **main.cpp**
* Send **debug.cpp**
* **Save All** calibration values to config.txt
* Send **config.txt**

B) Program **Actions**
* **Makefiles** on RPi
* **Pause Stream** from RPi

C) **Advanced** GUI options
* **Dual Screen** mode
* **Camera Calibration** options

D) **Display** options for left frame
* **Original** frame from the camera
* HSV colour space (**cvtColor**)
* Image smoothing (**Blur**)
* Image thresholding (**inRange**)
* **E**rode and **D**ilate on threshold frame
* Find **contour**s from threshold frame
* Generate **Rect**angle around contour

E) **Object** to track or calibrate
* **Ball**
* **Blue Goal**
* **Yellow Goal**
* **Field**
* **All**

F) **Display** options for right frame (Similar to point D)

G) **Copy Thres**hold values of selected region on the image frame to the calibration values

H) **Upper** bound of the values of the threshold

I) **Lower** bound of the values of the threshold

J) **Notepad**

### Launch Protocol 

1. Launch GUI on laptop
2. GUI read values from config.txt 
3. GUI SSH into RPi to launch the camera program
4. Connect socket client (RPi) to socket server (laptop)
5. Send frame information to the server (dimensions and channels)
6. GUI streams frames from RPi in real-time

## Development process

Initially, we started off with python as it was easier and quicker to develop with. However, after developing the first simple prototype with a frame display, we soon realized that the support for `PYQT5` (python) was meagre compared to `QT5` (CPP). Furthermore, we decided to standardize CPP as the code our programs will be written in (refer to program section for more details). 

The GUI started off as a simple application containing a display frame, display options (refer to D in Figure) and spin boxes (refer to H & I in Figure) for calibration of the colour detection. After repeated usage of it during the development of the camera program, we added on other productivity features. For example, the dual screen was added when we found switching the display options on one frame to compare the results of the newly calibrated thresholding values to be especially troublesome. 

Along the way, when improvements are made to the program, the GUI is updated accordingly. The camera calibration options came after realising that using `raspicam` instead of `raspicam_cv` allowed us to control the white balance, ISO and shutter speed of the camera. 
While this version of GUI is incomplete, it is still able to serve its basic purpose of interfacing with the camera.
