---
layout: single
title: Robot Components
permalink: /open/mech/comp/
sidebar:
  nav: "side-open"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_icon: "cogs"
toc_label: "Components"
---
This section goes into detail about the different modules that make up our robot. Components are ordered in decreasing order of importance (in our opinion). One thing you will realise is that we like to take inspiration from many teams, adapting and improving upon their ideas. As much as possible, we will be linking our "references" so that you can check them out yourself and hopefully get inspired by them too!

## Drive system

The drive system is the most important part of the robot, directly dictating the degree of mobility of the robot. Hence, many considerations were put into this part, not only with the motors used, but also the wheel design and their placement

### Motors

The motor we use is the JMP-BE-3561 model by JoinMax ([Website](http://roboexp.com/products/post.asp?pid=34)) ([Datasheet](http://roboexp.com/products/images/201812/3561.pdf)). We first bought this motor back in 2018, which was also the year where this motor made its international debut with lightweight champions, LJ Stand ([Poster](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPh5H2HzPVjt2wpaWPG-9Mnrah6Dkoe2Ghs8lTklUj96C2vK_ss1Fg4HTWEEaDdhg/photo/AF1QipOusXaE-bTkOXWjb3M6T7Pcu6LTusV3T5kNputd?key=dHA1TUNIdHFCR1ZnMnN1T1o4S0NZaGlhMzE0OHpn)). We used this motor for internationals in 2018 too ([Poster](https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipPh5H2HzPVjt2wpaWPG-9Mnrah6Dkoe2Ghs8lTklUj96C2vK_ss1Fg4HTWEEaDdhg/photo/AF1QipObWPqCdW84jdbp6I86uDTHw8wcNx2Ohzzu-GZ-?key=dHA1TUNIdHFCR1ZnMnN1T1o4S0NZaGlhMzE0OHpn)), and this motor has only seen increasing adoption in the 2019 season. 

INSERT GALLERY: motor photo, motor in lightweight bot?, motor in current bot

Out of the box, this motor comes equipped with a planetary gearbox and is built with an angle bracket frame for easy mounting. This is an *extremely* high-powered motor with a no-load speed of 1700 RPM and a stall-torque of 20 kgf·cm, which translates to about 1.96 Nm. To understand how insanely powerful that is, here's a comparison table of its specs to other similarly sized motors from more popular brands. (Notes: no load speed and stall torque are calculated assuming 100% gearhead efficiency, the price is calculated from unit price, and all motors have a nominal voltage of 12 V)

|Motor|Diameter (mm)|No load speed (RPM)|Stall Torque (Nm)|No load current (mA)|Weight (g)|Price (SGD)|
|:---:|:-----------:|:-----------------:|:---------------:|:------------------:|:----:|:---------:|
|JMP Motor|24.5|1700|1.96|700|80|120|
|[Maxon A-Max Motor 11037](https://www.maxongroup.com/maxon/view/product/110937) with [Maxon 4.8:1 Gearhead 166156](https://www.maxongroup.com/maxon/view/product/166156)|26|1706|0.385|57|220|348|
|[Maxon RE Motor 339150](https://www.maxongroup.com/maxon/view/product/339150) with [Maxon 5.8:1 Gearhead 166157](https://www.maxongroup.com/maxon/view/product/166157)|25|1658|1.55|68.1|220|480|
|[Pololu Metal Gear Motor with 9.68:1 reduction](https://www.pololu.com/product/3202)|25|1030|0.314|300|82|31|
|[CHR-GM25-BK370 with 1:20 reduction](https://item.taobao.com/item.htm?spm=a1z09.2.0.0.7c0e2e8dvVvgZ0&id=538197884967&_u=730vu5iq9443) (Another China motor we own)|24.4|980|-|600|85|6.40|

It is clear that no motor even comes close to the JMP motor in terms of offering high speeds, high torque, low weight *and* relatively cheap pricing. However, there is one major disadvantage which is the incredibly high no load current. This motor is a giant power suck and thus, heats up very quickly too. On the other hand, this motor is simply too highly rated for us to ever use its full capabilities in a controllable way, with the fastest speeds used set at about 50% of the full speed. While this means a lot of the motor's capabilities are "wasted", it also means that the negative effect of overheating is somewhat curbed.

A good alternative to our JMP motors would be Maxon's RE motor series, but a single motor with gearhead combo costs 480 SGD without shipping so that's definitely not happening anytime soon...🙃 (yes, we tried requesting for sponsorship under Maxon's [Young Engineers Program](https://drive.tech/en/young-engineers-program) before but they didn't even bother replying us...) Hence, we concluded that the JMP motors were our best option after considering all the factors above.

>Life lesson: When all else fails, China is the answer

### Wheels

INSERT EXPLODED PIC OF WHEEL

Our wheels are mostly made up of 3D printed parts. We made the omni-wheels doubled layered instead of single layered so that our robot has greater traction on the field, especially since the mini rollers are quite thin. Each omni-wheel layer contains 15 3D printed mini rollers, which has an hourglass shape. 

Each mini roller is fitted with a [NBR O-ring](https://item.taobao.com/item.htm?spm=a1z09.2.0.0.51532e8dsZMwNp&id=576164717128&_u=730vu5iq5aad) (6 mm diamter, 3 mm thickness) that acts as the tyre. This O-ring has to be stretched a little to wrap around the outer section of the mini-roller before falling in place along the recess of the roller.

Also, a [dowel pin](https://detail.tmall.com/item.htm?id=521984195750&spm=a1z09.2.0.0.51532e8dsZMwNp&_u=730vu5iqd166) (2mm diameter, 8mm length) is fitted through the middle of the roller to act as an axle. The centre hole of the roller is slightly smaller on one side such that the dowel pin has to be force through, ensuring that the roller remains rigidly connected in place since its the dowel pin that is spinning freely, not the roller.

Each omni-wheel layer is made up of one thick and one thin 3D printed plate. The thicker plate contains rectangular indents where the mini rollers fitted with the dowel pins will fit in. The size of these rectangular indents took quite some trial and error since the tolerances for these rollers are very small; they had to be just loose enough to allow the dowel pins to spin freely but just tight enough to prevent it from jittering about too much. The thinner plate fits on top of the thicker plate to act as a cover.

**Backstory:** These wheels were created to replace our [JMP-BE-6059 wheels](http://www.roboexp.com/products/post.asp?pid=24). The JMP wheels were actually quite good since it uses large rollers and is also double layered. However, the material of its roller is soft rubber, which despite having good traction, was *not durable* at all. These wheels were used by our RoboCup 2018 lightweight team and at the start of the competition, the wheels were almost brand new, but by the end, the rubber rollers were either breaking apart or had completely fallen off, leaving behind the raw plastic roller itself. Attempts to make a Frankenstein wheel out of another JMP wheel ([JMP-BP-1261](http://www.roboexp.com/products/post.asp?pid=14)) which used a harder rubber were tried, but they were much less effective since the harder rubber had little traction. Hence, the need to create our own, more durable wheels arose.

### Positioning

The motor's angles relative to one another can affect the maximum speed of the robot when moving in certain directions. For example, a motor combination with the front angles being larger will result in faster forward movement. Since we wanted the robot to travel in equally fast speeds in all directions, as well as to make our holonomic calculations easier, we decided to arrange the motors in a 90 degree fashion. However, arranging them simply in a 90 degree cross would make the catchment areas very small.

INSERT CROSS IMAGE

Thus, we came up with a "split cross" arrangement, where the motors were moved apart while preserving the same angle. This arrangment keeps the translational holonomic motion the same, while adding a small change to the rotational motion as shown in the vector diagram below. (More details about holonomic movement can be found in the [Programming](#sike) section)

INSERT VECTOR DIAG

## Mirror

### Design

In order to view the whole field with only one camera, a curved mirror is used to provide 360 degree vision for the robot. However, there are many parameters that comes into play with such a vision system like the type of curvature, degree of curvature, height of mirror, etc. 

Many teams have used an array of mathematical approaches to determine the optimal equation for the mirror's curve. We also tried doing so, referring to [this paper](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/243774568_Mirror_Design_for_an_Omnidirectional_Camera_with_a_Uniform_Cylindrical_Projection_when_Using_the_SVAVISCA_Sensor) which included a MATLAB program which supposedly derives a mirror equation numerically given a set of parameters. However, we were unable to get the code to work and we felt that this was just an overly complicated way of doing things.

Hence, we came up with our own intuitive, extremely simple, trial and error method with absolutely no math needed. **insert engineer vs mathematician joke here*\*

1. The origin of the drawing symbolises the centre of the base of the robot. Set our camera point to a certain height (arbitrary estimation) above the origin, and set the height of the top part of the mirror. 
2. Draw a 2D side view of the longest diagonal distance across the field, represented as a long horizontal line from the origin. This length is calculated from the rulebook's field dimension drawings.
3. Draw a 120-130 mm vertical line at the end of the horizontal line to represent the goals. This is not a perfectly accurate representation but 

Now, we need to understand the effect of a curved (parabolic) mirror vs a straight (conic) mirror.

### Manufacturing

Based on our research, we found 4 possible ways to make such a mirror

Gluing mirror sheets
- Simplest method to making a mirror
- A 2D net of the mirror shape is wrapped around a mold (usually 3D printed) of the mirror shape and glued into place
- Used in a number of lightweight teams e.g. 

Molding mirror sheet
- d

Electroplating
- d

Polishing
- d

## Dribbler

Monetary costs (BOM?)

Drive system: 
motors used, placement angle
wheel design

Dribbler: design details (gear, bearing, plate, motor, roller, ski ramp)
Solenoid: why only 1, design (solenoid plate, placement)


Mirror: design process, manufacturing process
Mirror plate, mirror plate supporter (trapezium stands)
Camera module: camera cone cover, camera position (height)

Battery slot

Switch

Large microprocessor placements (raspi, teensy)

TOF holder



Handle

Layer design

<!-- Including pagination manually since these are pages so page layout MUST be changed under navigation.yml -->
<nav class="pagination">
{% assign arrsize = site.data.navigation.side-open|size |minus:1 %}
{% for i in (0..arrsize) %}
    {% if site.data.navigation.side-open[i].url == page.url %}
        {% assign down = i|minus:1 %}
        {% assign up = i|plus:1 %}
        <a href="{% if i == 0 %}#{% elsif site.data.navigation.side-open[down].children %}{% assign arrsize2 = site.data.navigation.side-open[down].children|size |minus:1 %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[down].children[arrsize2].url }}{% else %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[down].url }}{% endif %}" class="pagination--pager {% if i == 0 %}disabled{% endif %}" title="{% unless i == 0 %}{% if site.data.navigation.side-open[down].children %}{{site.data.navigation.side-open[down].children[arrsize2].title}}{% else %}{{site.data.navigation.side-open[down].title}}{% endif %}{% endunless %}">Previous</a>
        <a href="{% if i >= arrsize %}#{% elsif site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children[0].url }}{% elsif site.data.navigation.side-open[up].url %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[up].url }}{% else %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[up].children[0].url }}{% endif %}" class="pagination--pager {% if i >= arrsize %}disabled{% endif %}" title="{% unless i >= arrsize %}{% if site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children[0].title }}{% elsif site.data.navigation.side-open[up].url %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[up].title }}{% else %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[up].children[0].title }}{% endif %}{% endunless %}">Next</a>
    {% elsif site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children %}
        {% assign arrsize2 = site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children|size |minus:1 %}
        {% for j in (0..arrsize2) %}
            {% if site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children[j].url == page.url %}
                <a href="{% if j == 0 %}{{site.data.navigation.side-open[i].url}}{% else %}{% assign down = j|minus:1 %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children[down].url }}{% endif %}" class="pagination--pager" title="{{site.data.navigation.side-open[down].title}}">Previous</a>
                <a href="{% if j >= arrsize2 %}{% assign up = i|plus:1 %}{{site.data.navigation.side-open[up].url}}{% else %}{% assign up = j|plus:1 %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children[up].url }}{% endif %}" class="pagination--pager" title="{% if j >= arrsize2 %}{{site.data.navigation.side-open[up].title}}{% else %}{{ site.data.navigation.side-open[i].children[up].title }}{% endif %}">Next</a>
            {% endif %}
        {% endfor %}
    {% endif %}
{% endfor %}  
</nav>

<style>
    ul.visible-links li.masthead__menu-item a[href="/open/intro/"]:before {
        transform: scaleX(1);
    }
    ul.hidden-links li.masthead__menu-item a[href="/open/intro/"] {
        color: #fff;
        background: #0092ca;
    }
</style>